=head1 NAME

loadbars - A small and humble tool to observe server loads

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head2 Tested platforms

This version of loadbars has only been tested on Debian GNU/Linux Squeeze.

=head2 I like flying elephants

For any startup params help check out --help on command line or 'h' during program
execution.

=head2 A few examples however

loadbars --extended 1 --showcores 1 --height 300 --hosts localhost

loadbars --hosts localhost,server1.example.com,server2.example.com

loadbars --cluster foocluster (foocluster is in /etc/clusters [ClusterSSH])

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Loadbars is a small script that can be used to observe CPU loads of several remote servers at once in real time. It connects with SSH (using SSH public/private key auth) to several servers at once and vizualizes all server CPUs and memory statistics right next each other (either summarized or each core separately). Loadbars is not a tool for collecting CPU loads and drawing graphs for later analysis. However, since such tools require a significant amount of time before producing results, Loadbars lets you observe the current state immediately. Loadbars does not remember or record any load information. It just shows the current CPU usages like top or vmstat does.


=head1 INFO

=head2 CPU stuff

st = Steal in % [see man proc] (extended), Color: Red

gt = Guest in % [see man proc] (extended), Color: Red

sr = Soft IRQ usage in % (extended), Color: White

ir = IRQ usage in % (extended), Color: White

io = IOwait cpu sage in %, Color: Purple

id = Idle cpu usage in % (extended), Color: Black

ni = Nice cpu usage in %, Color: Green

us = User cpu usage in %, Color: Yellow, dark yellow if to>50%, orange if to>50%

sy = System cpu sage in %, Color: Blue, lighter blue if >30%

to = Total CPU usage, which is (100% - id)

pk = Max us+sy peak of last avg. samples (extended)

avg = System load average; desc. order: 1, 5 and 15 min. avg. 

1px horizontal line: Maximum sy+us+io of last 'avg' samples (extended)

Extended means: text display only if extended mode is turned on

=head2 Memory stuff

Ram: System ram usage in %, Color: Dark grey

Swp: System swap usage in %, Color: Grey

=head2 Network stuff

Rxb: Incoming (received) traffic in %, Color: Light green, normal green if >100% while using low netlink reference. Bar comes from top and is half width.

Txb: Outgoing (transmitted) traffic in %, Color: Light green, normal green if >100% while using low netlink reference. Bar comes from bottom and is half width.

When network bar is red: The interface does not exist on the specific remote host.

=head3 Config file support

Loadbars tries to read ~/.loadbarsrc and it's possible to configure any option you find in --help but without leading '--'. For comments just use the '#' sign. Sample config:

=over 4

showcores=1 # Always show cores on startup

showtext=0 # Always don't display text on startup

extended=1 # Always use extended mode on startup

=back

will always show all CPU cores in extended mode but no text display. If you press the 'w' hotkey during program execution your config file will be overwritten using the current settings. 


=head1 LICENSE

See package description or project website.

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Buetow - <http://loadbars.buetow.org>

=cut
